>> Jason Pamental: Anybody have
more questions about this,
these few pages that
we've been looking at?
>> Speaker 2: A little earlier you showed
a calculation to figure out what the font
width would be, and then as you were
scrolling there were a whole bunch more,
and I was just wondering if you could-
>> Jason Pamental: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: Maybe walk
through one of those.
>> Jason Pamental: Sure, absolutely.
>> Speaker 2: As far as what's happening,
and why it's happening?
>> Jason Pamental: And let's see.
>> Jason Pamental: Well,
I'll do one of ones in this ff meta page,
cuz I think this is probably clean but
not too overwhelming.
Because with install var I'll
look at that one with you but
that ones actually doing more stuff and so
this might be a little
bit easier to follow.
In looking at what we're doing with
the H1, the things that we want to vary
are going to be the text weight making
sure that the italic is set properly,
we are going to play around with
line height, and then we are also,
no, those are the two things
we are going to calculate.
So, this is a little bit
easier to kind of look at.
And, the tool tips are a little
bit [LAUGH] If those could
go away that would be awesome,
I'm sure that's a setting.
So here's, similar to what we
were looking at in the slides.
At the low end, we start with
the variable for the font size minimum.
And at the high end font size max.
So that's the easy part.
Start out with the low end and then
whatever your largest break point is where
you want it stop scaling, then that's
where you set it inside a media query.
Stop at that maximum value.
It's the point in the middle.
As soon as we hit the first break point,
where you want font size to start
changing, that's where
stuff starts to happen.
For line height, here's what's happening.
We've got, it's starting out with making
that same calculation of line height.
Time one m.
Plus the line height
max minus the minimum.
So it's only a calculation to
essentially find the midpoint.
That's essentially what it's doing.
You got the low end value and
then you're taking the high end
value minus the low end value.
So if it was five and ten,
like we had in that other example.
It's taking the low end value,
which is five, and
then the high end value minus the low
end value, so that's also five.
And,
>> Jason Pamental: And
then adding those things and
multiplying by 100 viewport units,
and then it get's into playing
around with the break point values.
I will be totally honest with you,
I would have a very hard time explaining
to you every piece of these formula.
That's why I'm so grateful for
Tim Brown for figuring it out.
But effectively what this is doing,
the hundred viewport with
units is like saying a 100%.
And it's taking out a piece of
that which is a division based
on the break point values.
And that amount is always going to be
varying based on what does 100 viewport
with units mean?
With the width of this window.
So that's the piece that makes
this sort of magic work is
that the scalable value is
100 view port with units.
Because that renders to a different number
of pixels every time you move the window.
So that's what,
that multiplier is constantly changing.
And being added to the low end of value.
So that's essentially what's happening,
is it's creating a scalable amount of zero
to the difference between the low and
the high end value, based on a multiplier
of this scaling value of Window width.
I mean,
that's effectively what it's doing.
So 100 view port with units
translates to a pixel value.
That's what the browser is doing with it,
so as that pixel value keeps changing and
it goes from 400 to 500 to 600 to 1200 to
1600, that number is being swapped into
this formula and it's then recalculating
what that font size should be.
So for your daily use of this,
what you would need to know are what's
the low end value you want,
what's the high end value you want and
where are the two break points where
you want those calculations to happen.
So just those four pieces of information
are the only things that you need
to change.
And so what I did was set up
a series of variables up here or
I just kinda group them all together,
just so
I can see them all at the same time.
So, for the h1 my line height min and
max values,
font size min and max values,
and then weight multipliers.
So the other thing that's interesting
about working with a variable font
this way is I actually am not
setting an explicit weight value,
other than on the paragraph text.
Everything else is a multiplier.
So it's all proportional.
If I go back and I change the font weight
of what my normal text is from 300 to 325,
everything else is gonna
recalculate from there.
So that's another sort of useful
thing about having everything
based on this set of variables and
then multipliers.
That makes it a little bit easier for me
to fine-tune things by just going in and
changing a base weight or
changing how much I want it to vary.
So in this case I have,
I've defined my text weight,
my initial text weight is 350.
And this is where I'm setting
the variable for my paragraph weight.
It is set to the text weight.
These are just multipliers, so
If I go back down to that heading section,
which I think is somewhere down here.
H1, there we go.
Text weight is I've taken my paragraph
weight times the multiplier.
So, if I change with that paragraph
equates to then this is going to be
multiplier based on that and
I can change those multipliers if I want
based on break points so because what
I noticed is I can be more subtle,
not only in text size, but
also in weight differentiation.
On small screen to large.
You need bold to stand out
a little bit more on a big screen,
little bit more than you do on a small.
So, that way,
you can create more of these ranges to say
I want this value to shift a little bit.
But only in this usage, so
going back to where these were
defined I've got multipliers for
kinda small medium and large.
That's just sort of a semantic name for
me to say in a medium break
point I'm gonna shift my multiplier and
so if I wanted to and
see here in the h2 I'm actually
changing that weight multiplier.
So as the screen size changes
that weight is also changing.
And so if I go back here.
So this is an h2.
And as this gets smaller,
you'll see the weight of that is
actually getting a little bit less.
Not a ton, but the advantage is,
at a smaller size, by having that slightly
lighter weight, it keeps the shape of
the characters very open and clear,
but still gives me the visual
emphasis that I need.
So as it get physically bigger it can
support that heavier stroke weight.
So you can see there I hope
this got a little bit heavier.
The front weight just got
maybe a 100 value a little
greater than it is at
this smaller shift value.
And so it stands out nicely
at a physically bigger size.
Does that make sense?
>> Jason Pamental: We'll keep coming
back to this with a few different
applications and a few different usages.
One thing I will say is after I wrote
this the first time I've refined it
a couple of times, but I've taken almost
the exact same CSS and brought it in
to other projects and all I've really had
to do is start to change some variables.
It has so far now, granted, this is
testing across eight different demos,
it's not doing stuff in production.
My site is gonna be the first production
site that I launch using those techniques.
That's my job on the plane home tomorrow.
But that's so far, it has been the most
reusable framework that I've created.
Because that's usually what happens
with a framework is it's great for
this one thing that you're doing, but then
it becomes really rigid when you try and
use it elsewhere.
This so far to me has felt like it has
the right amount of flexibility without
having to touch the really
crazy hard stuff.
But it is behaving nicely across
the whole range of screen sizes.
One second, I just want to put this up
on screen so you can actually see this
in action, I need to, I did not get the
java script connected the right way, which
I will have to update in the repository,
but this was just a way for people to
see things in action kinda stacking
from the minimum to the maximum weight.
That used to be going
in a looped animation.
Loop and key frame animations in the web
are still horrible memory sucks,
and will kill bowsers faster than
you could possibly imagine so
If I left that running through two or
three cycles and
about half the browsers on the market,
it would use 100% of your CPU cycles.
I have no idea why.
It's not really doing all that much, but
web animation is still a little bit weird,
so that's why I set it to
basically use JavaScript to,
time out after 4 seconds and
remove the class.
So it'll animate a little bit and
then it'll just go back.
But, you can take a look at the code, the
key frame animation is pretty interesting.
And it's just a simple JavaScript with a
timer function that will remove the class.
So hopefully those things will be useful.